#Updated on 22th, Feb. 2017. 
==============================
##Preparation
------------------------------
(1)Download netMHCpan3.0 and netMHCIIpan 3.1 from http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/cgi-bin/nph-sw_request?netMHCpan and http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/cgi-bin/nph-sw_request?netMHCIIpan, respectively. 
Then, set {"netMHCpan-3.0a.Darwin.tar.gz" or "netMHCpan-3.0a.Linux.tar.gz"} and {netMHCIIpan-3.1a.Darwin.tar.gz or netMHCIIpan-3.1a.Linux.tar.gz} in "main". 

(2)Execute the script “Main_Preparatin.sh”. 

(3)See following texts and “SampleRun.R” to learn how to use this library. 

------------------------------
##Functions:  
MainSNVClass1, MainINDELClass1, MainSNVClass2, MainINDELClass2

###Arguments: Required
 
 **-input_file:** An input file annotated by ANNOVAR (http://annovar.openbioinformatics.org/en/latest/) or other softwares to be analyzed. 

 **-HLA_file:** A tab separated file indicating HLA types.  
 	The 1st column is input_file name, and the following columns indicate HLA types.   
	Free to use any Header.   
 	(e.g.,   
	 sample1	A*02:01	A*32:01	B*15:17	B*51:01	C*07:01	C*15:02  
	 sample2	A*01:01	A*02:01	B*15:17	B*51:01	C*07:01	C*15:02  
	 ...)  
	 
###Arguments: Not Required (Standard Profiles)
 
 **-file_name_in_HLA_table (Default=input_file):** If the name (1st column) in HLA table is not input_file, indicate the corresponding name. 

 **-hmdir (Default=getwd()):** Home directory for the analysis. 

 **-job_ID (Default="NO_JOB_ID"):** Job-Id to be attached in output files. 

 **-peptide_length (Default={8,9,10,11,12,13} in HLA Class1, and ={15} in HLA Class2):** Peptide Length to be generated. 
 
 **-Chr_Column (Default=1):** The column number describing Chromosome number in input_file. 
 
 **-Mutation_Start_Column (Default=2):** The column number describing Mutation Start Position in input_file. 
 
 **-Mutation_End_Column (Default=3):** The column number describing Mutation End Position in input_file. 
 
 **-Mutation_Ref_Column (Default=4):** The column number describing Mutation Ref in input_file. 
 
 **-Mutation_Alt_Column (Default=5):** The column number describing Mutation Alt in input_file. 
 
 **-NM_ID_Column (Default=10):** The column number describing NM IDs in input_file. 
  
 **-Depth_Normal_Column (Default = NA):** 
 
 **-Depth_Tumor_Column (Default = NA):** 

 **-ambiguous_between_exon (Default=0):** The maximum number to permit the differences between Exon-Lengths from refFlat and refMrna. 
 
 **-ambiguous_codon (Default=0):** The maximum number to permit the differences between inputfile- and refMrna-oriented translation START/END position. 

 **-refFlat_file (Default=paste(hmdir,"/../lib_int/refFlat.txt",sep=""):** refFlat file to be used in constructing peptide. This file is automaticalluy generated by Main_Preparation.sh
 
 **-refMrna_1 (Default=paste(hmdir,"/../lib_int/refMrna.merge.cut1.fa",sep=""):** refMrna file to be used in constructing peptide. This file is automaticalluy generated by Main_Preparation.sh
 
 **-refMrna_3 (Default=paste(hmdir,"/../lib_int/refMrna.merge.cut3.fa",sep=""):** refMrna file to be used in constructing peptide. This file is automaticalluy generated by Main_Preparation.sh

###Arguments: Not Required (RNA Profiles)
 
 **-RNAseq_file (Default=NA):** A file including RNA expressions. 
 	The 1st, 2nd and 3rd columns are "GeneSymbol	Chr:ExonStart-ExonEnd(locus)	Expression Amount", respectively.  
 	The 1st row should be any hedear.  
	(e.g.,  
	 header  
	 ABR	17:906757-1132315	15.0383  
	 AAGAB	15:67493370-67547533	15.8485  
	 ...)

 **-RNA_bam (Default=NA):** RNA bam file to calculate variant allele frequency of RNA at each mutation. 
 
 **-refDNA (Default="./../lib_int/GRCh37.fa"):** refDNA information to be used to calculate RNA VAF. 
 
###Arguments: Not Required (CNV Profiles)
  
 **-CNV (Default=NA):** A file including copy number variation to calculate cancer cell fraction probability (CCFP).  
 	The format is according to ASCAT (https://www.crick.ac.uk/peter-van-loo/software/ASCAT) output files.  
 	The columns are "Chromosome	Position	Log R	segmented LogR	BAF	segmented BAF	Copy number	Minor allele	Raw copy number"  
 	The 1st row should be the above hedear.  
	(e.g.,  
	Chromosome	Position	Log R	segmented LogR	BAF	segmented BAF	Copy number	Minor allele	Raw copy number  
	SNP_A-8575125	1	564621	-1.93486733232252	-0.0986229841341464	1	NA	1	0	-0.497321162431626  
	SNP_A-8709646	1	721290	0.0991588550891442	-0.0986229841341464	0	NA	1	0	1.96316993015397  
	...)  
 
 **-Purity (Default=NA):** Tumor purity or tumor contents ratio requierd to calculate CCFP. 
  
------------------------------
##Functions:  
MainMergeClass1, MainMergeClass2

###Arguments: Required

 **-input_dir:** Directory storing netMHCpan Results.
 
 **-input_file_prefix:** File prefix of netMHCpan Results.  
  If you have "sample_annovar.txt.NO_JOB_ID.HLACLASS1.1.peptide.txt", please set "sample_annovar", "sample_annovar.txt" and "sample_annovar.txt.NO_JOB_ID". 

###Arguments: Not Required
 
 **-hmdir (Default=getwd()):** Home directory for the analysis. 

 **-Tumor_RNA_BASED_ON_DNA (Default=TRUE):** In calculating tumor specific RNA expression, TRUE uses variant allele frequency on DNA. Otherwise, use VAF on RNA. 
